Add shingle token filter docs (#8398)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/shingle.md

---
layout: default
title: Shingle
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 370
---

# Shingle token filter

> The `shingle` token filter is used to create word n-grams, or _shingles_, from input text. For example, for the string `slow green turtle`, the `shingle` filter creates the following one- and two-word shingles: `slow`, `slow green`, `green`, `green turtle`, and `turtle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `shingle` token filter is used to generate word n-grams, or _shingles_, from input text. For example, for the string `slow green turtle`, the `shingle` filter creates the following one- and two-word shingles: `slow`, `slow green`, `green`, `green turtle`, and `turtle`.
```

This token filter is often used in conjunction with other filters to enhance search accuracy by indexing phrases rather than individual tokens. For more information, see [Phrase suggester]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/did-you-mean/#phrase-suggester).

## Parameters

The `shingle` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 

> `min_shingle_size` | Optional | Integer | The minimum number of token to concatenate. Default is `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`min_shingle_size` | Optional | Integer | The minimum number of tokens to concatenate. Default is `2`.
```

> `max_shingle_size` | Optional | Integer | The maximum number of token to concatenate. Default is `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`max_shingle_size` | Optional | Integer | The maximum number of tokens to concatenate. Default is `2`.
```

`output_unigrams` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to include unigrams (individual tokens) as output. Default is `true`.

> `output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to output unigrams if no shingles are produced. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to output unigrams if no shingles are generated. Default is `false`.
```

> `token_separator` | Optional | String |  A separator used to concatenate tokens into a shingle. Default is space (`" "`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`token_separator` | Optional | String |  A separator used to concatenate tokens into a shingle. Default is a space (`" "`).
```

> `filler_token` | Optional | String | A token to insert in place of empty positions or gaps between tokens. Default is underscore (`_`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`filler_token` | Optional | String | A token inserted into empty positions or gaps between tokens. Default is an underscore (`_`).
```

> If `output_unigrams` and `output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` are both set to `true`, `output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` is ignored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `output_unigrams` and `output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` are both set to `true`, `output_unigrams_if_no_shingles` is ignored.
```
